all right this week we looked at nash
equilibria
and
a nash equilibrium
is a strategy profile in which every
player best responds to the strategies
of their opponents
and in this
definition there are two
parts to this definition
somewhat hidden in the definition is the
fact that players correctly
predict the behavior of their opponent
so they essentially know
what their opponents are gonna play
and then the second part is if we know
what our opponents are gonna play then
we will best respond to it because we
are rational
now here
the notation here
let me maybe emphasize this
so here if we only use sigma then this
is the entire strategy profile of every
player so
we could write it as sigma i and sigma
minus i or as the profile of all players
and then on the right hand side on this
notation here means that
well player i deviates from sigma i to s
i but everybody else plays the same that
they do on the left hand side
so if we fix the behavior of all of i's
opponents
and player i knows what they will play
then player i has no incentive to
deviate from a nash equilibrium
now how does this relate to the solution
concepts that we looked at last week
well precisely
through
the correct conjectures right so what
sets nash equilibrium apart from
rationalizability
is that
the conjectures of every player are
correct
so here i tried to summarize this once
again the relation between the solution
concepts that we have seen
and
so crucially the players
know in a nash equilibrium
what their opponents will play
whereas in rationalizability
if fake strategy profile is
rationalizable then somebody some player
eye strategy may not be a best response
to what the other
players are playing
but it is a best response to some
conjecture that can be justified
all right
one question from the chat is why is it
s i here and not sigma
so similar here to what you've shown in
assignment one is that
if
a player has a profitable deviation
then they always have a profitable pure
strategy deviation so this condition is
somehow easier to check for us because
we only have to
um check
that they have no
profitable deviations to pure strategies
and this implies that they don't have
any profitable deviations to mix
strategies either so you would also be
correct to write sigma tilde i here
and then iests we have seen that
that in the end
we don't necessarily get the best
response to the opponent's strategy
profile but
we it's not even a best response
necessarily to some valid conjecture
over the strategy profiles that remain
i think the best way to visualize this
the difference between rationalizability
and nash equilibrium is the example that
we have started on last week's class
with
and
there was this example where
a pedestrian and the driver tried to
cross the intersection
and we have seen that every strategy
profile here is rationalizable um we can
justify crossing if we believe
the other weights
and we can justify waiting if we believe
the other one crosses
and any mixture of them can be justified
as well
but we see here that
the profile where both
players cross
is rationalized by
conjectures that are completely wrong
right so if we if both players believe
the other one will wait with certainty
and they cross then this means that
exposed their beliefs were invalidated
so
if we want to you know make kind of
predictions of perfectly rational
players it would be more satisfying if
if they aren't completely wrong in their
beliefs
and this is what we do in nash
equilibria the conjectures are correct
so even if
so if the players knew what their
opponents would play
they have no incentive to deviate so
given that we know
the driver walks what will we do we will
cross
because
one is higher than zero
whereas cc here if we know that the
other one is crossing then we're not
going to cross as well in that case
we're going to deviate and
choose to wait which is also a nash
equilibrium
and then we add a third nash equilibrium
where
both players mix
sorry can i ask why the contractions
ww is wrong
so because it's
the opposite of what players actually do
right so here the strategy profile is
what they actually do
they actually cross
but the players crossed because they
believed their opponent would wait
and because it's not the same the
conjecture is wrong
so if i guess a c and w but the x w and
w is is it also a round conjecture yeah
then one of the players had a wrong
conjecture and the other player had the
correct conjunction i see thank you
and then i think conceptually one of the
most important parts of the class will
be when is it
justified that
we expect nash behavior
so maybe first what is
a nash equilibrium
it's really just that it's a set of
consistent outcomes where if the other
if i knew what everybody else is playing
i would have no incentive to deviate
and as such these are all the possible
outcomes of the game where players are
rational
and
their beliefs are correct
so if we make these two impositions
then the set of nash equilibria are all
possible outcomes of the game
now if there is more than one nash
equilibrium we may wonder okay
when does one happen and when the other
because this is a static game players
have no way to communicate with each
other no way to coordinate
and
in that case indeed we should be
we shouldn't necessarily choose a single
nash equilibrium as a prediction
yeah so we should use
an individual nash equilibrium as a
prediction only if
the assumption that the player's
conjectures are correct can reasonably
be justified
and we have seen some examples of this
we have seen
that if a unique strategy profile
survives
to elimination of rationalizability
then only using common knowledge of
rationality the players can arrive at
the correct conjecture
this was the example in let's say the
kuno
game this is one way they can logically
deduce it
another way how they could correctly
expect
behavior is if there was explicit
communication before the game
and communication can take many forms um
you and i could talk about it before we
play a game
um we have the example of the traffic
lights that tell us who is supposed to
walk
and then once we know that this is
everybody's
beliefs so if we know that if the
traffic light is red
for the cars
then
then we know that we can walk and the
cars they know that they they can't
cross because we are going to be
crossing
then
if we
for some kind of evolutionary process if
there's learning going on about the
opponent's strategy profile um
then we could eventually arrive at the
correct prediction let's say if we play
rock paper scissors infinitely many
times or many many times then maybe
you'll start to see
how i mix between
between the actions and then
you can correctly predict my behavior
and best respond to it
and then lastly
um
social norms or if a focal point where
if there is some behavior that is
expected by everybody like saying hi in
the elevator or something like that
then
then that would be a nash equilibrium
that
or a behavior that is expected and
and that's how we can justify correct
conjectures as well
okay that's sort of the big picture of
nash equilibria and they want to spend a
decent amount of time this week on on
examples are there any questions so far
all right let's start with the simplest
example that we could encounter and
those were the two examples that
you you answered in poll everywhere
and let's look at the game to the left
first
and
let's see how we could
find nash equilibria here
now we have seen a few ways how we could
do that we could
use indifference principle we could use
um we could find the best response
correspondences
or what i typically suggest you do first
is first we eliminate
strictly dominated strategies because
nash equilibrium can only
place
or
nash equilibrium are rationalizable so
anything that is not
rationalizable cannot be a nash
equilibrium
and this will simplify finding best
response correspondences
so in this game here let's see what
strategies are
dominated
so we see
if we look at it we see that right for
player 2
is dominated by a left
so regardless of what player 1 does
player 2 is better off choosing left
and so we can eliminate right
and given that right is eliminated we
see that now
choosing top is strictly better for
player one than choosing down
so we can eliminate
down
and then lastly
the only player left with with a choice
is player two and player two
prefers n among the responses
and
this means that if there is a unique
uniquely rationalizable strategy profile
this has to be the nash equilibrium
because we know
any such game has a nash equilibrium
right that's it for the left one
for the right one i would like to
to show the two approaches um using
the indifference principle and the best
response correspondences and then see
how do they
differ let's
first try to
use the indifference principle and
find
nash equilibria this way so the first
thing that we would do
is we would look
at
pure strategy nash equilibria
so
if
player 1 plays t player 2's best
response is
to choose left
if player
1 plays d player 2's best response is r
then if we fix left
by
by player 2 then
choosing top or down is the best
response because player 1 isn't
different
and then lastly if player 2 chooses r
then choosing down is a best response by
player 1.
and we see that we have two pure
strategy nash equilibrium top left and
down right
now to find the mixed equilibrium let's
try to use the indifference principle
let me switch to my sketchbook for this
alright so
with the indifference principle
we
try to find
a strategy for let's say player two that
makes player one indifferent
so for player two
we
can write the strategy as let's say y
times left
plus
with probability 1 minus y we choose
right
and
then
by the indifference principle player 1
should be indifferent so maybe let me
write
indifference
principle
so player 1 is indifferent
we
if top and down
yield the same utility
and if we go back to the utility
function then we see that
okay if player 2 chooses left
then
then player one will get two regardless
of what player one plays
and then they get one if
downright is chosen alright so choosing
top it's two if player two plays left
so two times y
and for choosing down
[Music]
so for choosing down always gives at
least one but it gives one additional
payoff unit if player 2 plays left so we
can write this as 1
plus y
now when are those the same
it's if y equals one
okay then we can do the same for
the other player are there any questions
so far
then
for the other player we
we're choosing left
choosing left does not matter what
player one does so always be one
and
choosing right
will give us three payoff units if
player one cruises down
and those are the same
those are identical
if
x is
two thirds
and so we get a mixed
a completely mixed nash equilibrium
and left
okay this is the approach using the
indifference principle now i mentioned
that
the problem with the indifference
principle is that we don't necessarily
get all the solutions
because
it's only a property that has to be
satisfied in any nash equilibrium or any
mixed nash equilibrium
but it's not sufficient
what is sufficient is a mutual best
response so let's try to solve the same
game using a
using best response correspondences
now for best response correspondences
best
response
correspondences
what we do is we parametrize
an arbitrary strategy profile so
this was
just x choosing top
and then probability y choosing left
and we compute
let's say player one's utility in it
and
also here
if player 2 chooses left we always get 2
regardless of what player 1 plays
so that gives us 2 y
and
if
player 2 chooses right
then we get 1
if we choose down which happens with
probability 1 minus x
and to find the best response
we take the derivative with respect to
player one's choice variable
so that would be with respect to x and
that's minus one minus y
so this is y minus one
and
we find the best response correspondence
to
strategy two pi
player two
which can be one of two things well it
could either be
well either we're indifferent if y is
one
or if y is less than one
then choosing down is a
unique best response
okay that was it for
for player one are there any questions
how do we do that
we do the same for player two
so here if we look at the utility it's
again one for choosing left regardless
of what player one does but now it's
three for choosing if downright is
realized
so we have
y
plus three
one minus y
one minus x
is
three x minus two
and
we get players 2 player 2's best
response correspondence
so if x is
sufficiently large
this quantity will be positive which
means that
increasing the probability of choosing
left will lead to a payoff increase so
it's maximized at y equals one
if
x is larger than
two-thirds where player two is
indifferent
if x is equal to two-thirds
and
which was right
if x is smaller than two-thirds
and then to find all nash equilibria we
check consistency
and we go through these three cases so
if
oops
if x is larger
than two-thirds
then
well then y has to be one
y is one
and if y equals to one then here we have
that
um
anything by player one is a best
response
so this is consistent
if
x is equal to two-thirds
that
that means player
player two
uh player one has to be willing to mix
right so in order
for
for player one to
to be willing to mix it must be that y
is equal to one otherwise mixing would
not be a best response by
by player one
that means also y equals one
and that's again consistent
and then lastly if x is smaller than
two-thirds
then y has to be zero
as we see here y zero is the best
response to x smaller than two thirds
and then if y is zero then we have to
have x is equal to zero as well
and this is consistent so this gives us
the nash equilibrium
down
right
we've found this before and these give
us the nash equilibria
x top plus 1 minus x down
left
for x larger or equal than two-thirds
and we see that we get infinitely many
infinitely many nash equilibria
that we did not get using the
indifference principle
and the reason why we didn't get those
with indifference principle is because
in this nash equilibrium
player 2 does not have to be indifferent
right because player 2 does not mix
whereas in the previous
in the indifference principle we have
assumed both players are indifferent but
player two doesn't have to be
indifferent
and so even if
player one
chooses
top with the probability larger than
two-thirds then player two is willing to
choose left and it's a strict best
response in that case
good any questions about
how we solve
finite games
so first use
first eliminate some strategies and then
use best response correspondences
um i want to ask about the utility of
the player one yes
um
can you say that again why we don't
consider the down
strategy
uh can you repeat that
um
the player one play why don't
the player one play down the strategy
down
i mean they
play the strategy down
if
player 2 chooses right because it's a
strict best response
but
in the other nash equilibrium where
player 1 mixes
player 1 has to choose top with
probability at least two thirds for
player two to be willing to choose left
right if player
one chooses both of them equally
then left would not be a best response
by player 2 and then player 2 would
choose r instead
so here the reason why x has to be
larger than 2 3 is so that it's the best
response for player 2 to choose left
no no
yeah i'm i'm asking about the utility
function
in the second bullet
here
yeah right um we only consider that why
is
tl right
2y is from tl the table from tl oh 2y is
the entire row
so we could write this with an
intermediate step we could write this as
2 yx plus 2 y 1 minus x
oh okay
okay
[Music]
yeah that's that's all about my question
yeah
okay
then the next
most important example that we're going
to encounter is
nash equilibria with
or in games with a continuum of actions
where we have
nice concave differentiable utilities
and
and i want to show again sort of the
the incorrect approach first of how we
can solve it and then the correct
approach how we get all the nash
equilibrium
so
this one here is
the same example that we have seen
last week but the difference is now that
there's
we want to solve it for general
parameters p0 which is the price
when there is no no supply
and general ci which is the caused by
the two firms
and we want to solve the nash equilibria
for all of those parameterizations at
the same time
so
so maybe the first
intuition is that we look at the best
responses and we take the partial
derivative of the two players
so
um
we look for pure strategy equilibrium so
ui
of q
was
um
see
e0 minus c1
and we take the partial derivatives
and we see this is
our first guess might be okay let's set
this equal to zero to find a maximum and
then we find q i
is p0 minus c i
minus q minus i
over two
and a nash equilibrium would then be
where they are equal to each other
so
q i is p 0 minus c i
minus
p 0 minus minus i
so here we just plug in
player minus i is best response for q
minus i and then we can solve this for
qi
and
what we obtain here okay so we have p
zero half and then
minus p zero quarter so we have p zero
quarter left
minus c i half
and here we get plus
c minus i quarter
and then
plus q i over four
now we can bring
qi quarter to the other side so we get
or subtract
and
divide by three quarters
um
now there is a problem with this
approach does anybody know what went
wrong
so let's try to choose specific
parameters so
previously we had let's say p0 was 100
c1 was 10 and let's say firm 2 now has a
very high cost let's say 70.
so what is our prediction here
okay for firm for firm 1 we have 100
minus
20 plus 70 that's 150 divided by 3 so
that's 50.
and for firm 2
we would get a 100
minus 140
plus 10 so that would be minus 10.
exactly raymond
replied in the chat we're only
considering interior solutions and
that's a problem
because the maximum could be obtained at
the boundary
and we see things especially the
prediction here that does not make sense
firm two would not produce a negative
quantity
and we can't now just say okay for
improvement which is zero because that
will change the response by
firm one
so how do how do we do this correctly um
throughout the entire derivation
so we
need to notice here that this is only
the best response if it's an interior
solution
but a best response could be
at the boundary let me save this
and then
so i guess starting from here we have to
use a different approach
[Music]
this is an interior point
interior
a boundary point there's only one
boundary point here q i is equal to zero
is the best response when is this the
best response
well it's the best response if
if the price is negative
right if the other company produces so
much that the price is negative without
our participation then we shouldn't
produce anything and so this is if the
other company just produces more than
p0 minus ci
and
so if we put both of them together
um
we see that the actual best response
correspondence is
oops
um
if the switch for each firm
okay so is what we have derived before
so
p0 minus
c one minus q two
half
if
q two
is smaller
what is this more than or equal
and it's zero otherwise
and
to verify consistency let me also write
it down for for player 2.
and we again go through all the cases
and the first
so if
i guess let's look at the cases first
where one produces zero so if q2
is larger than p0
minus c1
then
q1 is zero
and if q1 is zero this means
q2 has to be equal to this ratio here
so this means
q2 is equal to
minus c 2
2.
so firm 2 produces the monopoly quantity
now when is this consistent well let's
see it has to be consistent with what we
started with so it's consistent
if and only if
so if
p0 minus c2 over 2
is
larger than p0 minus c1
so we can
we can we express this identity as
2 c1 minus c2
is
larger than p0
and
we get
the symmetric
reply
if
um
if we're in the other case here now this
is one
and
so if q1 is larger than p0 minus c2 we
get symmetric
symmetric equilibrium and then lastly
if neither of those cases are satisfied
then we do what we've done previously
then we plug in the best responses to
each other
and we get
what we had before which was
q
i is p0
minus
was it 2 c i plus c minus i or 3.
and we can check that this is consistent
if and only if
c i minus c minus i is smaller equal
then
t zero
so in this way we get the nash
equilibria for all possible cases of the
parameters
[Music]
are there any questions so far
so it's really important that in the
best response correspondence we allow or
we account for the boundary points
and one thing that i should also mention
is
we have to check that this is a
this is actually a best response
by looking at the second order
sufficient conditions
so if we look at the second derivative
and we see that this is strictly concave
which means the utility function is
something like this
and
in that case so wherever the first order
condition is satisfied is indeed a
maximum
which makes it a best response
so at the beginning of the class i
mentioned that
the method
somehow is more important in in graduate
game theory than than the solution and
so here i really want to emphasize it is
important
that you check that this is indeed a
best response so that it's indeed
a maximum of player i's utility
and reject that with the second order
condition and by checking when the
boundary points
might be best responses
any questions
okay so
those
are the two by far the two most
important types of examples that you
will encounter throughout the course
there are finitely many actions and
there are continuum of actions with a
very nice
typically strictly concave utility
function
and
and this is really the the most
important part of this week's class so
before i continue i just want to make
sure everybody understands everything up
to here
actually i think this is a good point to
go through the questions
um that you answered on poll everywhere
so how many nash equilibria are in
against the left so this is
was very good this there is one nash
equilibrium that survives
um
rationalizability that was the left gain
here
now for those of you who are applied
zero um
we have the nash existence theorem which
tells us that at least one of them must
exist so zero cannot be the answer to
any of those two games
so in the second game we've seen there
are infinitely many
and the reason
why there are infinitely many is because
we have this weak dominance of of
strategies
right so
down is weakly dominant but player one
is willing to play top
given that player two plays left
and we can find those infinitely many
nash equilibria using
the best response correspondences
are any questions to those two
oh sorry can you hear me yes
also i have a question let's um
when can we be sure that we
don't have a mixed strategy naturally
quickly but for example like
if there will be the case that
after computing uh best response
my mixed strategy will detract my rate
to pure strategy would it be the case
that i only have pure strategic national
coding
it could be
so yeah the the best way to make sure
that you have all nash equilibria is to
use the mutual best responses
because that's really the definition of
a nash equilibrium and it means that we
have found all of them
yeah okay yeah
thanks
then
no strictly dominated actions are in the
support of any nash equilibrium that's
correct
um
nash equilibria must be rationalizable
and in particular
no strategy and support
can be strictly dominated
right so this was the inclusion that we
had of the solution concept
that
is
is a larger or produces more
outcomes than than nash equilibrium
then in every outcome of a mixed nash
equilibrium every player best responds
to the other player's outcome
the answer's false so this is not
correct
and
the reason is that mixing is done
independently
of the players uh let me go back to this
example here
so in
the mixed equilibrium
um
the two players mix and given that the
other strategy mixes then our then we
are indifferent so we can choose
anything as the best response
but if both players mix
then what's the probability that cc
happens
so cc
with
probability
well one-fifth times one-fifth
so that's about four percent that's four
percent
oh because they mix independently
the
bad outcome will happen with with
positive probability and now in this
outcome the players don't best respond
to each other
and the reason here is that players
really choose the distribution so
there's no better distribution to
respond to
but
this is only true you know ex-ante
before we know what happens once we
realize the outcome then
then it must not be that they mutually
best respond to each other
are there any questions about this
sorry can you explain again that what do
you mean like uh
what what is this question like the uh
every player best response to the other
player's outcome i cannot quite
understand this
the question itself is the problem
um
oh maybe the question is not perfectly
worded but
the idea is that
in a mixed nash equilibrium players
choose
you know a distribution over pure
actions
and only the distributions
are best responses to each other
but not
everything
in the support of those distributions so
not every outcome
that can happen
is the best satisfies a mutual best
response property
so in this example
the car crash can happen or will happen
in the mixed equilibrium with four
percent
and in this outcome neither player best
response
to the other
so this is something to keep in mind
when we work with mixed nash equilibria
is that
even though players best respond to each
other
there might both still be some very bad
outcomes that happen with positive
probability
and
since there was a question on
on paul everywhere about
the payoffs let me address this right
now because it fits nicely
so the the payoffs that can be attained
in a
mixed nash equilibrium in this example
is here the yellow set
and the reason
why it doesn't extend all the way to the
to the convex hall here
is because
whenever both players
attach positive probability to crossing
then we will get the crash with positive
probability which is a very negative
utility for both
and in general
the set of mixed
or the set of
utilities that can be attained in a
mixed strategy will be will be smaller
than the comics hull and
it'll be
strictly smaller whenever
the
the pure strategy utilities
differ by
the strategy of more than one
one player
so here the entire boundary is contained
because we can attain the entire
boundary when player two
crosses and player one mixes
then we'll get anything on this boundary
but we can't attain this here because
both players have to mix
in order to get something in between but
if both players mix we will also get
this very negative utility
uh excuse me can you hear me yes
i i want to ask uh some questions about
this graph yes
if like uh both
players have like more than three
strategy then we have
more points on this graph and how can we
like draw this mixed action payoff uh
my suggestion is to use a computer
that's how i i drew this
um so what can we say in general um in
general we can say
that
maybe okay oops ah
so if we have two
extreme payoffs
then any payoff in between
are part of the
strategy payoffs if
they differ only by the strategy of one
player so if let's say this is s
i
s minus i
and this is as tilde i
as
minus i
then this
boundary here can be or the entire line
segment can be obtained by mixing by
player one at player i
but if this is not the case
if we have something here
and
it involves a
very different strategy profile let's
say by all opponents and typically
the boundary will look something like
this
now deriving this analytically is quite
complicated um you would have to find
the entire set and then take the
supremum over the set and then the
derivative to find
the boundary so that's why i suggest um
just use a computer to find instead of
all
utilities that can be attained in a
mixed strategy
thank you
sorry i want to ask a following question
yes if i use a traffic light can i reach
the right above triangle that is not in
the graph exactly
if we use a traffic light then what we
can attain
is we can attain any distribution over
over outcomes
which is larger than the set of mixed
strategies so if we have the correlation
the public correlation
then we can attain the entire convex
hall
so this was a traffic light example
okay then
we can find all nash equilibrium by
applying the indifference principle to
all possible possible combinations of
the support and that's also false
um as we have seen in
in the example here there are infinitely
many
and with indifference principle we only
get three of them
then about continuum of actions
if we have an interval
of pure strategies available
then
any
strategy satisfying the two conditions
is a best response let's see the
conditions
so we have first order necessary in the
second order sufficient condition
um
this is not
necessarily true because it could be a
local maximum
so what could happen is
if we draw the utility of player i
if this is sort of oops the interval
oof
ah this is not a very nice graph
let's just look at this
then
this point here
would satisfy the two properties which
means it's a local maximum
but it's not the global maximum we see
here the global maximum is a boundary
plan
right so this only means local maximum
now typically
in the games you encounter we have
strict concavity in which case
local maximum is a global maximum if
it's
in the domain
so in general this is false
then the converse
is also false
because a boundary point does not
satisfy these conditions
right so not every best response
satisfies
those two
in fact here the boundary point
um the derivative is positive strictly
positive
and that's why we choose the highest
possible point that we can choose
it's increasing all the way to the edge
and then
the maximum is obtained at the edge
of the domain
then
the next one
about existence
a
if your strategy nash equilibrium does
not exist if the utility function fails
to be upper semi-continuous
um
this is false
it's not guaranteed to exist but it
might exist
right so one thing to keep in mind if we
look at these
at these existence results
is that
even if they are not satisfied there
might be a pure strategy nash
equilibrium we just don't have a general
proof for it
it's important to keep in mind those are
sufficient conditions
not necessary conditions
and
we have seen
quite a few examples where there was a
pure strategy nash equilibrium even
though the utility function is not upper
semicontinuous
like the beach vendors example
or
the
or somber trunk competitions also have
the pure strategy equilibrium
last
last question which condition of
kaputani's fixed point theorem fails to
hold with a continuous action set
and
all conditions are satisfied i see that
the students generally
think that i will try to ask a trick
question
but
if all the conditions are satisfied this
would mean that the proof would work
in for infinite strategy sets
so this would mean we always had
existence
so something cannot hold so it's not
possible that it's the last answer
otherwise we would have existence for
all those games
and
here we just there's two ways how we can
how we can
find the right answer
one is
okay when we looked at these examples
where there might not be an equilibrium
what went wrong and we have seen that
the best response correspondence
sometimes is empty
so
here we had sometimes it was empty
so this is one way how we can find out
about which one is violated by looking
at the examples we've looked at
the other one is we go go back to the
proof and see where have we needed there
are finitely many
and it was here
that there are finitely many strategies
and we have indeed used it to show
that
well if there's finitely many the
maximum over finitely many strategies is
attained
if we have infinitely many
then we would get a supremum here
instead of a maximum
which is what happens precisely if we
have an increasing utility where the end
point is not included
so then
there might be
um
not there might not be a best response
excuse me yes how do you see that xxx is
always compact
i i'm like
yes
so
there's
a famous result from
from
topology which says that
um it's called pikonov's theorem and it
says that the product of any compact
space is compact
um
but
but but now like if you have a
a
continuous action set then how do you
know that
the distribution of the
uh
like you have infinite
uh even action so
how how do you know that the
the set of distribution is complex
um
it's a good question um
so
i'm sure there is a theorem that says
it's compact um
the idea is or when would it not be
compact
and
sort of if limit points
were not included
but so
a distribution um
has
reasonable limit properties in the sense
that um
what really makes a distribution is that
the total weight assigned is one and
it's non-negative
and
can we like
uh because
uh
um baby supporters should be
uh the atom should be
countable and
like like like
doing limit with those atoms and
i i don't know i'm just
i don't think it's it doesn't have
anything to do with the atoms um it's
simply
i mean the best way to illustrate this
is unfortunately not in an infinite
strategy space but in in a two strategy
space
and the set of all distributions
is then given by the probability with
which we choose let's say action one
question one action two
and then we have here the probability x
with which we choose it
and the defining conditions of a
distribution
would here be that
x is smaller or larger than zero then
one minus x which is the probability of
the other action is also larger or equal
than zero and we have that
the sum of the two
is
equal to one
um
[Music]
maybe actually a better way to
to write it is
the the the set is clearly compared when
when we are doing with finite actions so
i'm sure but what i'm trying to say here
is that
because all of those are weak
inequalities
essentially they are robust to taking
limits
okay
even if we have an infinite strategy
spec space yeah yeah
that makes sense thank you
okay then
those were all the questions that i
asked you
and
i will now go through some of the the
questions from that you asked on
um
on
paul everywhere
and quite a few questions were here
about condition three so let me walk you
through the steps of this proof again
so we try to find here is we try to
show that this best response
or mutual best response correspondence
has
a closed graph what does a closed graph
mean
it means that
if we have some some sequence of of
strategy profiles
oops
sequence of strategy profiles
but then the limit point
is
included so here we have sort of
strategy profiles by eye's opponent and
here on this dimension we have
um
the best response by
player i
and so in a sense that
if along an approximating sequence
we always choose the best response by
player i then in the limit
we also have to obtain a best response
so formally we start with the end point
here
and
we approximate the strategy profile with
a sequence in the graph
right so player i best responds to i's
opponents
now here for this proof we can do this
for a fixed player i
oops
which means that the other players don't
necessarily have to best respond
to each other this is just player i best
respond to i's opponents
and
we try to see
yes there's a question
and i don't know if i'm correct but like
to use triangle inequality i think the
fourth bullet point we should have ui
uh
sigma i naught s i
because that we want to
help triangle triangular equality so i
think we should rely on the
not not involved uh
one to hold to state the triangle in
quality when i read this i cannot quite
understand
yeah i'll get there s i should be
correct here but let me let me just walk
you through all this okay until we get
there
um
yeah so now we
so first we set up the proof with with
this statement we have this
approximating sequence where player i
best responds all along the sequence
and we want to show that in the limit it
has to imply a best response by player i
and the typical way to prove it is to
suppose that this is not true suppose
that
in the limit player i does not best
respond
this means there is a better response
some pure strategy si that yields a
strictly larger
utility now the thing is
that
because we have this convergence
and the utility
is continuous in mixing it means that
u i
sigma i k sigma minus i k
converges to
[Music]
the i sigma
and this means that for some k
sufficiently large
ui
sigma i
k minus sigma i
k
differs from the limit here
by
a small amount let's say smaller than
epsilon half
and actually we should probably use
epsilon third
third
now
we know that s i
is
epsilon better than sigma i
we know that
sigma i k
sigma i or the
the uh
the approximation is that most of
silence are different and we can also
get
um
we can also get
that u i s i
and sigma minus i k
differs by u i s i
sigma
minus i
by at most
epsilon third
and if we put all of these together we
see that okay
s i was better than
or epsilon better than sigma i
so first we can use this
inequality to ensure that
okay si
um
exceeds this payoff here by at least two
epsilon thirds
and
exceeds
um
oh i'm making a mess here
this should be
sigma
okay
so that you just said here
this differs
only by a third epsilon this differs
only by a third of silence on the left
in the end we still get an improvement
by one-third epsilon
and so in the limit so i guess if we use
these intermediate steps this should be
epsilon
third here
and
but it still means that
that
this here would be epsilon third
[Music]
um it still means that s i is a strictly
better response than
than sigma ik and it's a contradiction
that
that along the sequence player i best
responded to the others
excuse me
yes
i think that uh you cannot write sigma k
here you you can only write
s i
sigma
sigma negative i
um
um utility is continuous in any players
mixing
yeah so so
but but si is not converged to sigma i
so
oh yeah that's correct yeah yeah we have
to we have to only you look at the
difference here from sigma k to this one
here
um
so that should the the the
uh the area here is sigma okay
and that's that that is the
last
so it should be like s i sigma k
negative i
and s i
so you can compare
uh uisi sigma negative i k to to the
first term and and the rest the the
second term yes and you can yeah
correct thank you
so
uh
[Music]
another question about about the main
concept of this proof
is um
what we were trying to say that
if there is a convergence sequence
in the graph then the limit is also in
the graph
but
um
if we do so then we cannot actually if
we pick a point
in the graph we cannot assure that
the sigma ik is in bi sigma k in
negative i
so
yes because that's the graph of b i
so yeah but
uh so so i i think you need to pick
some like sigma i prime or something
like you need to pick another strategy
to to to to
to construct another conversion sequence
so you have two companies
one one is the profile and one is the
point you pick in bi
oh but so here we have let's say
a visualization right so here we only
approximate
so
like
if you pick
if you pick it up
so that the graph is closed right so we
need to look at a sequence in the graph
yes
right so any such sequence or any sigma
which has such an approximating sequence
right this is the condition that we need
it's not true that we can
approximate any strategy profile like
this we can only
um what we need is we need
really an approximating sequence you
know
so
the sigma ik here is not um let me let
me check
the sigma ik here is not the
the
entry in the strategy profile of sigma k
it is yes it is but
it's not true that this works for
arbitrary sigma right we choose
a sequence of strategy profiles
essentially choose
i don't know
let me just clear
this work again okay so here
we start with
um
a sequence
sigma minus i k that approximates sigma
minus i
and for each of those we choose um sigma
i
in
p
i
sigma minus i
k
and then we define
sigma k as
consisting of all of those
you need a case
if there are more questions i i i i said
the trick here thank you
sorry what
i i i i i know i know what you're saying
now thank
you good
okay
then
okay this class has lasted already for
quite a while so let me go through or
show an example about mixing as well
before we conclude the class
so
so those that we started with are by far
the most
the most important
examples that you'll encounter but then
there are some examples in which the
utility functions aren't
extremely nice in which case we have
pure strategy equilibrium if
we have quasi concavity
and
they may not exist if we have
discontinuous utilities
um
so for all these games with
discontinuous utilities if they do exist
pure strategy nash equilibria then they
typically have the property that
the utility function of each player is
continuous in their own strategy given
the equilibrium action
of the opponents
so we have seen this in
in the vendors on the beach example
where
the utility function was
the only way how it could be continuous
is precisely in the nash equilibrium
where both players choose one half and
so it precisely had this property here
now
in most
games that we encounter in economic
applications typically
if the utility is discontinuous then
typically this happens because we have
some discontinuous division of the
social surplus
and the social surplus itself is
continuous
and in that case we have existence of a
mixed nash equilibrium by das gupta and
maskin
and
somebody asked me in the paul everywhere
questions to look at an example one more
example of a bertrand competition
and
let's try to find
a
pure or mixed strategy nash equilibrium
here in the bertrand competition
so one example
that i mentioned earlier in the course
was if we sell financial derivatives
then
this is typically a bertrand competition
where we quote a price
to
to the buyer
so typically
financial derivatives are
sold by investment banks and they
they insure themselves against the risk
by hedging and so the price or the cost
at which they can provide this financial
derivative
is essentially the cost at which they
can hedge
this derivative
and typically commercial banks like
like juan and bank
would go to an investment bank to buy
some financial derivatives and then the
commercial bank tries to sell them to
end users like you and me
and
they ask
different investment banks for a quote
they say i want to have
a lot of call options on
on this company
and
each investment bank quotes a price and
then typically the commercial bank will
choose to buy from whoever quoted the
lowest price
and this precisely fits into the model
of
bertrand competition
um
the investment bank that quotes the
lower price
can sell
um can satisfy the entire demand
and if they quote the same price they
will share demand equally
now let's first see at
pure strategy
nash equilibria here
so
let's draw the utility function um if we
code so let's fix some price of our
opponent
and our cost
then
our utility function has slope one is
strictly increasing
if we quote a lower price because then
we satisfy the entire demand right so
this function here is p i minus c i
then
if we quote the same price we sell half
of it so it's precisely in between here
and then if we quote a higher price we
don't sell anything and our profit is
zero
now let's turn this into a best response
correspondence
so if
the opponent quotes a price that is
higher than our cost then we don't have
a best response right because
it's discontinuous here
if our opponent
quotes exactly our cost
then
we're indifferent between um
between selling and not selling because
our profit will be zero in that case we
have a best response so in that case the
utility function would be
would be
like this
right so it's
we don't want to quote the price lower
but
quoting a price above or the same price
doesn't matter because we'll always get
zero
and then if they quote a price that is
lower
then we want to overbid
our opponent because we would make a
negative return
so
if we formalize this
if our opponents go to higher price then
there's no best response because we
always want to just under bid by a very
small amount
if they quote
our cost then anything above our cost is
the best response
and finally if they underbid our costs
then we don't want to compete
then anything where we don't sell
anything is the best response
now
if we look at the consistency here
then um
so it's clear to see that our opponent
cannot quote anything larger than our
our cost in an equilibrium because
otherwise we don't have a best response
but they also can't really quote
anything that is lower because if they
quoted anything that is lower they
always have a better response to quote
something slightly closer to our cost
right they want to be as close to our
cost as possible
but just below it
and
so the only way for there to be in
equilibrium is if both
companies have the same marginal costs
and
the price is at the marginal cost
now let's see if we can use this
intuition
to find a
mixed strategy nash equilibrium
and let's look at a parametrization
where there is no pure strategy nash
equilibrium so let's say one of the
firms has a lower cost
and in the example i mentioned with the
financial derivatives would be that
um
let's say one bank underestimates the
risk
that is involved in this financial
derivative
then it believes it can hedge it at a
lower cost than it actually can so you
would have the lower cost than
the other firm
and
what could our guess be for a nash
equilibrium well okay
the more competitive firm bank one
so let's say bank two does not want to
quote anything below c2
and
bank one definitely wants to underbid
bank two
by a tiny amount
so
our guess could be that
if the equilibrium was any any quantity
larger than c2
then the first company would underbid it
so
what we have to have in the end is that
the first firm sells at the price
at the cost of firm two
and
this would be a
there's no pure study in ash equilibrium
because there's a discontinuity there so
we must have that
firm 2 does not sell at that price
but it sells
it starts mixing at that price
so let's see if we can turn that
into
a mixed nash equilibrium
look at my notes
um
okay so
so if
bank one sets the price at the cost of
bank two then bank two gets zero anyway
so anything that they do
so any distribution
so any
f
on
c2
infinity
is a best response for firm 2.
and for firm 1 we had to have that there
is no atom
otherwise it would have an incentive to
underbid
and so for one we can compute the expect
the utility
so
so it's the probability with which
firm one quotes a lower price
then firm two in that case the cell to
the entire
they satisfy the entire demand
and this is precisely one minus f
p1
so if they quote any price
this is their expected
utility
well if they quote the equilibrium price
so on the path
or
maybe
in equilibrium
okay the in equilibrium the price is
c2 minus c1 and they satisfy the entire
demand
so the only conditions that we have for
a nash equilibrium is that this is
larger or equal than one minus f
p
p minus c
one
and we can solve it for f p
and it means f p has to be larger or
equal than
p minus c 2 over p minus c 1.
and that's it that's
a mixed nash equilibrium with two
conditions so
the
mixing starts at c2
but assigns probability zero to c2
itself and then it increases
sufficiently fast
so that firm one does not have an
incentive to deviate to a higher price
and so this function here p minus c2
this takes something
of
a form like that and so anything um
any probability distribution
c
two so anything above it is fine so
let's say a
a uniform distribution
on some interval
works
are there any questions
so if i were to ask you in an assignment
to find such a mixed equilibrium i would
typically give you
the boundary point of the support so you
have a place to start
[Music]
now in this case the indifference
condition for the mixing player was
trivially satisfied because they get
zero for all their actions
but in the video you have seen an
example where we can use the
indifference condition to uniquely pin
down the distribution with which the
players have to mix
good
any questions
all right if not then i would like to
conclude the class here
um
let me emphasize that
the really the most important
applications of this week are if there
are finitely many actions or
utility functions are really nice now
this one here
takes some practice but
you will get to practice in one of the
assignments
if you have additional questions that i
didn't address
um
i'll stick around here let's we can just
add an office hour right here to answer
all the other questions but sort of the
new material that we discuss um
we will we will conclude
the class here
uh sorry i have a question a general
question
oh can you hear me yes i can hear you so
so uh i i i guess in general uh using
gas and verify only helps us find
some
some equilibrium out of equilibrium
and
is that true
what helps us find some but not all
right
so so using case and verify in the
setting of mixing on continuous
guessing and verifying yes
and
in that case how about those equilibria
that we do not find or maybe we cannot
find
um
so
um oops
um
in this example here actually
with asymmetric costs
uh it is unknown what all the mixed nash
equilibria are
um so
in that case so it will always be enough
to find
one
because typically it's so complicated to
find all of them
that i mean nobody has done it
so far so i'm not gonna ask you to do it
um
yeah
but yes it's true that this will only
give you one equilibrium um
but we're gonna be satisfied with one
equilibrium in these instances
okay thanks so i i mean i mean in
general people criticize that
well in research what problem we only
find part of equilibrium are not all
equally good
um
i mean so
all it depends on the context
so what we're typically happy with is if
we find a
reasonable equilibrium
um
or the optimal equilibrium
right so if
we have a specific
specific research question and we're
trying to find
um
let's say a a climate agreement between
different countries then if we can find
the equilibrium that attains and so it's
the pareto efficient equilibrium
then typically it's enough to find that
one
so finding all of them is is not usually
required um
because
yeah it could be intractable in many
moments so it actually depends on how
insightful the equilibrium is
it's not dependent
thank you